# Fall 2018 Team Project: Food Query and Meal Analyzer

## A-Team 42

### Members :

**Harrison Clark** --
Email: hjclark@wisc.edu
, Lecture: 003

**Takuto Sugita** --
Email: tsugita@wisc.edu
, Lecture: 003

**Jaskirat Singh** --
Email: jsingh39@wisc.edu
, Lecture: 003

**Askar Safipour Afshar** --
Email: safipourafsh@wisc.edu
, Lecture: 003

**Rohith Rentachintala Venkata** --
Email : rrentachinta@wisc.edu
, Lecture: 003

## Points to note (for the TA grading our submission)

- The food list is titled **Available Foods** and the **Count** displayed is number of filtered food items/total number of food items.


- The filtering operation happens in two steps --
  1. First the user has to create the filter queries to be applied to the list of food items by selecting relevant fields and then clicking on **Create Filter** button.
  2. Once they are created and listed in the **Active Filters** list below, the **Apply Filters** button has be to clicked for the actual filtering of food list to take place. Notice that the created filter query entries in the list below are appended with (Applied).
  + **Note**: At any point only one active name filter query but multiple nutrient queries are allowed (Will be explained why below).
  
  
- During creation of a new food item, the unique 24 alphanumeric character long ID is auto-generated by the application. It cannot be       edited by the user.

- The name of the new food item to be created should comprise only of alphanumeric characters and underscores(_).

- If one or more filters are active when creating a new food item, and if the food item matches the active filter criteria, then the item will be added to the food list (the master list) and also to the list of diplayed filtered food items. The Count of Available Foods will get updated in this case like (filtered food items + 1)/(total number of food items + 1).


- If one or more filters are active when creating a new food item, and if the food item doesn't match the active filter criteria, the item will just be added to the food list (the master list) but not to the list of diplayed filtered food items. The Count of Available Foods will get updated in this case like (filtered food items)/(total number of food items + 1).


- The idea behind having only one active name filter query but multiple active nutrient queries at any point is that for the existing active filters to apply to the food list in the event of creation of a new food item, the complexity of application of name filter will still be O(N) (but if there are two active name filters for example - the complexity for such an operation would become O(N^2) in this case).

- The filters can be cleared by clicking the 'Clear Filters' button. Once this button is clicked, all the filter query fields, along with the Active Filters list will be cleared, the Available Foods list will be populated back with the original list of all the available food items (Notice the Count will be back to initial state in this case).

- For loading and saving food items, the file type supported is **.csv** file only, this is done to prevent inadvertent read/write operation by the user from/to an unsupported file type.

- The meal analysis window has three main controls: a TableView with the food items in the meal and their nutrient values, a pie chart with the macronutrient caloric breakdown, and a section with the totals for each nutrient. The pie chart is created by multiplying the total carbs and protein each by 4 and total fat by 9. These three values then make up the three pieces of the pie chart. We chose this because it is important to the user to know where the majority of calories are coming from in a meal.
